{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 SourceSansPro-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red83\green83\blue83;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The White House\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf3 \strokec3 Office of the Press Secretary\
For Immediate Release\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf3 June 23, 2017\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl900\sa600\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs70 \cf4 \strokec4 Remarks by President Trump at Signing of the Veterans Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf4 East Room\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 11:57 A.M. EDT\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0Thank you very much. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Thank you very much, everybody. \'a0That's really greatly appreciated.\
And thank you to Secretary Shulkin for that introduction and for your really tireless efforts, David, to protect those who have really been protecting all of us for so long. \'a0There great, great people. \'a0And you know I'm talking about, right? \'a0Congratulations.\
In just a short time, we\'92ve already achieved transformative change at the VA -- and believe me, we\'92re just getting started. \'a0We have so many people that have been so helpful right here in the room -- Tom and all my friends. \'a0It's been fantastic. \'a0The enthusiasm for the Veterans Administration and for making it right for our great veterans has been incredible. \'a0And I want to thank all of them. \'a0\'a0\
One of my greatest honors and joys during the presidential campaign was the time I spent going all across the country with our nation\'92s really and truly incredible veterans. \'a0In their courage, their dignity, and their selfless sacrifice, they represent the very best of us. \'a0Our veterans have fulfilled their duty to this nation -- and now we must fulfill our duty to them.\
So to every veteran who is here with us today, I just want to say two very simple words: \'a0Thank you. \'a0Thank you. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Thank you. \'a0You are the warriors and heroes who have won our freedom -- and we will never forget what you have done for all of us -- ever. \'a0\
As you all know all too well, for many years the government failed to keep its promises to our veterans. \'a0We all remember the nightmare that veterans suffered during the VA scandals that were exposed a few years ago. \'a0Veterans were put on secret waitlists, given the wrong medication, given the bad treatments, and ignored in moments of crisis for them. \'a0Many veterans died waiting for a simple doctor\'92s appointments. \'a0What happened was a national disgrace.\
And yet, some of the employees involved in these scandals remained on the payrolls. \'a0Outdated laws kept the government from holding those who failed our veterans accountable. \'a0Today, we are finally changing those laws -- wasn\'92t easy, but we did have some fantastic help -- to make sure that the scandal of what we suffered so recently never, ever happens again -- and that our veterans can get the care they so richly deserve.\
So you just heard from Sergeant Michael Verardo. \'a0I didn\'92t get to shake your hand, Michael. \'a0Huh? \'a0Get up, Michael. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0He gets up better than I do. \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0Thank you, Michael. \'a0\
Michael lost two limbs in defending our country -- and yet he had to wait 57 days to get his prosthetic leg repaired -- that's a long time, Michael -- and over three-and-half years for modifications to make his house more accessible. \'a0What happened to Michael is happening to many, but it's rarely happening under our leadership and David\'92s leadership anymore. \'a0That I can tell you.\
Our Wounded Warriors have given everything they have to this nation -- and we owe them everything we have in return. \'a0And we're taking care of it. \'a0Today, we are taking a very historic action to transform the VA by enacting the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act. \'a0This was not easy. \'a0This was not an easy one. \'a0And it's one that they wanted to do -- Michael, you know -- for a long time. \'a0For many years, couldn't get it done. \'a0We got it done.\
This is one of the largest reforms to the VA in its history. \'a0It's a reform that I campaigned on, and now I am thrilled to be able to sign that promise into law. \'a0\
VA accountability is essential to making sure that our veterans are treated with the respect they have so richly earned through their blood, sweat and tears. \'a0This law will finally give the VA Secretary -- who is, by the way, just doing some job, and he\'92s doing it with this and with the heart. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0\
It gives the Secretary the authority to remove federal employees who fail and endanger our veterans -- and to do so quickly and effectively. \'a0It's been a long time since you\'92ve heard those words. \'a0Those entrusted with the sacred duty of serving our veterans will be held accountable for the care they provide. \'a0It's a big statement. \'a0\
At the same time, this bill protects whistleblowers who do the right thing. \'a0We want to reward, cherish, and promote the many dedicated employees at the VA. \'a0This legislation also gives the VA Secretary the authority to appoint new medical directors at VA hospitals -- something which was almost impossible to do in the past. \'a0And these are going to be talented, talented people.\
I applaud Chairman Phil Roe and the members of Congress here with us today -- which we have many -- who fought so hard for this legislation. \'a0And I want them up here when I sign. \'a0And I just want to thank the members of Congress. \'a0They have been really dedicated to getting this done. \'a0It was not easy for them either. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Thank you. \'a0Thank you, everybody. \'a0Thank you. \'a0Thank you.\
Our very sincere gratitude as well to the veteran service organizations who have joined us for this tremendous occasion -- and for everything they do for the veterans -- and for so long. \'a0They\'92ve been fighting for this and other things so long -- and by the way, other things are happening. \'a0We've done a lot. \'a0This is a big one. \'a0We have a lot of good ones coming.\
I also want to express our appreciation for Secretary Shulkin, who is implementing the dramatic reform throughout the VA. \'a0It's got to be implemented. \'a0If it's not properly implemented it will never mean the same thing. \'a0But I have no doubt it will be properly implemented. \'a0Right, David? \'a0Better be, David. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0We'll never have to use those words. \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0We'll never have to use those words on our David. \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0We will never use those words on you, that's for sure. \'a0(Laughter.)\
That one never fails, does it, Tom? \'a0(Laughter.)\'a0\
Since my first day in office, we\'92ve taken one action after another to ensure our veterans -- and make sure, have to make sure -- that they get world-class care and the kind of care that they've been promised by so many different people for so many years. \'a0We've created a new Office of Accountability at the VA, which will empower -- and really has been empowered by this legislation. \'a0We\'92ve launched a new website that publishes wait times at every VA hospital. \'a0We\'92ve delivered same-day mental health services at all 168 VA medical centers. \'a0That's a big operation when you think of it.\
We\'92ve announced that the VA will finally solve a problem that has plagued our government for decades -- seamlessly transferring veterans\'92 medical records from the Department of Defense to the Department of Veterans Affairs. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0\uc0\u8232 That doesn\'92t sound like such a big deal. \'a0It is -- believe. \'a0That was a big one. \'a0We thought this would be easy, but the people, like David and all that have been here and understand the system, he said that's going to be a tough one. \'a0We got it done. \'a0So that was a good one. \'a0But it is something we're very proud to have been able to do it this quickly.\
I've also signed the Veterans Choice Improvement Act so that more veterans can see the doctor of their choice. \'a0Already this year, using the Choice Program, veterans have received nearly double the number of approvals to see the doctor of their choosing.\
And this is only the beginning. \'a0We will not rest until the job is 100 percent complete for our great veterans. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0We can all be inspired by the story of a retired Air Force veteran, named Earl Morse, who served as a physician\'92s assistant at the VA Centers in Ohio and Indiana. \'a0\uc0\u8232 Thirteen years ago, Earl began asking his patients if they planned to visit the new World War II Memorial -- which is beautiful -- right here in Washington, D.C.\'a0\
Nearly all said they planned to visit. \'a0But when he saw these patients at their next appointment, almost none of them had made the trip.\'a0\uc0\u8232 One day, he had an idea -- Earl is a private pilot. \'a0He asked one of his patients, who was a World War II veteran, if he could fly with him to the memorial. \'a0He was so honored to do it. \'a0The 80-year-old veteran wept; openly cried. \'a0He never imagined he would see that beautiful monument to his service. \'a0That is how the first Honor Flight was born. \'a0Honor Flight -- a very beautiful thing.\
Since then, over 100,000 veterans have been greeted with cheers of gratitude as they arrive in our nation\'92s capital. \'a0We want all of American veterans -- all of them, every one of them -- to experience and to at least have the opportunity to experience that same gratitude every time they walk into the VA.\uc0\u8232 That\'92s what today is all about: \'a0keeping our promises to those who have kept us free, kept us happy, saved our lives and saved our families. \'a0\u8232 So I just want to thank you, our incredible veterans. \'a0We stand with you. \'a0We salute you. \'a0And with this new legislation, we strive to better support and serve you every single day. \'a0\
Thank you. \'a0God bless you. \'a0God bless our veterans. \'a0And God bless America. \'a0Thank you very much. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0\
(Moves to signing desk.)\
So this is something that we are all very proud to be signing. \'a0It's a tremendous honor for me. \'a0It's a tremendous honor for everybody on stage. \'a0And we're taking care of our veterans, and we're taking care of them properly.\
Thank you, David. \'a0Congratulations. \'a0Thank you again. \'a0\
(The bill is signed.)\
END\uc0\u8232 12:17 P.M. EDT\u8232 \'a0\
}