{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 SourceSansPro-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red83\green83\blue83;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The White House\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf3 \strokec3 Office of the Press Secretary\
For Immediate Release\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf3 June 22, 2017\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl900\sa600\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs70 \cf4 \strokec4 Remarks by President Trump at American Leadership in Emerging Technology Event\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf4 East Room\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 11:04 A.M. EDT\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0Good morning, everybody. \'a0Very nice to have you here. \'a0It's a great honor. \'a0So many of you I recognize, and others I do from reading business magazines and other magazines. \'a0You've done very well. \'a0You're very representative of your group. \'a0\
And, Jeff, congratulations on a great career. \'a0\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0A great career. \'a0I was sad to hear it in one way, and in another way I said, boy, what a good job. \'a0\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0So I know whatever you're going to be doing -- that's a long time over there. \'a0I've known you a long time in that company. \'a0I've done deals with that company, and you were there, right? \'a0A lot of good friends like Dale Frey and John Myers. \'a0We had a good time at GE.\
Good morning, everyone. \'a0Thank you for being here and for giving us a chance to see some of the really exciting new technology that you've pioneered that will help improve so many millions of lives. \'a0\
I want to thank my Office of Science and Technology -- and this has been a great office; they have done such incredible work -- for organizing today's event and for bringing these wonderful business leaders -- and they are at the top -- together to talk about the importance of emerging technologies. \'a0\
I want to thank Secretary Ross for joining us today. \'a0Wilbur, thank you very much. \'a0And we just got back from Iowa last night. \'a0A big speech in Iowa. \'a0That was an amazing group of people. \'a0Those people were excited. \'a0I guess most people saw it, but they were excited. \'a0Wilbur has done a fantastic job, and I want to thank you very much for it, Wilbur. \'a0Everybody understands it. \'a0Wilbur, as Jeff -- as you know -- Wilbur is known as just "Wilbur" on Wall Street. \'a0They don\'92t even call him Wilbur Ross. \'a0They just say, oh, Wilbur is involved -- right? \'a0He's done a great job. \'a0Thank you.\
And, Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for being here. \'a0We've had some busy schedules, and we have a thing called healthcare that you may hear is percolating in the outside, as we've discussed. \'a0And I think it's going to come out. \'a0Obamacare is a disaster; it's dead. \'a0Totally dead. \'a0And we're putting in a plan today that's going to be negotiated. \'a0We'd love to have some Democrat support, but they're obstructionists. \'a0They'll never support. \'a0We won't get one, no matter how good it is. \'a0But we will hopefully get something done, and it will be something with heart and very meaningful. \'a0\
And, Steve, it's great to have you here, by the way. \'a0Really good. \'a0You've done a great job. \'a0I always say you got a hell of a lot of money for that sale. \'a0I don\'92t think you've been given enough -- I mean, I don\'92t think you were ever given enough credit for the deal you did for your shareholders. \'a0What a deal that was.\
Too many years of excessive government regulation. \'a0We have had regulation that's been so bad, so out of line that it's really hurt our country. \'a0And as you see, on a daily basis we're getting rid of regulation. \'a0In fact, Dodd-Frank is now being cut and cut very substantially. \'a0We'll have tremendous safeguards, but we're going to have banks that are going to be able to loan money to people so they can open businesses and do what they used to be able to do in this country.\
My administration has been laser-focused on removing the government barriers to job growth and prosperity. \'a0We formed a deregulation taskforce inside every agency to find and eliminate wasteful, intrusive, and job-killing regulations, of which we've had many.\
We want our innovators to dream big, like the folks around me and surrounding me in this room. \'a0And we want them to create new companies and to create lots of jobs. \'a0Your industry has been incredible. \'a0Your representation of your companies -- is the reason you're here -- has been something that has created so many millions of new American jobs, and probably jobs in many other countries, also. \'a0But we're interested right now in America first.\
We're on the verge of new technological revolutions that could improve, virtually, every aspect of our lives, create vast new wealth for American workers and families, and open up bold, new frontiers in science, medicine, and communication.\
Today's conversation will move America one step closer to that bright future that we're all talking about and all longing for in your world. \'a0I would love to hear about the discussions you've had this morning with our team, the White House, and get your thoughts on ways government can help unleash the next generation of technological breakthroughs that will transform our lives and transform our country, and make us number one in this field. \'a0This is a very, very competitive field. \'a0You see what's going on in China and so many other countries. \'a0And we want to remain number one. \'a0We want to go to number one in certain areas where we're not number one. \'a0And we're going to give you the competitive advantage that you need.\
So thank you all very much for being here. \'a0On behalf of myself and my great Vice President, it's been a meeting that we actually both looked very much forward to attending.\
END\uc0\u8232 11:10 A.M. EDT\
}