{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 SourceSansPro-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red83\green83\blue83;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The White House\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf3 \strokec3 Office of the Press Secretary\
For Immediate Release\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf3 June 15, 2017\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl900\sa600\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs70 \cf4 \strokec4 Remarks by President Trump at Signing of an Executive Order on Apprenticeship and Workforce of Tomorrow Initiatives\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf4 Roosevelt Room\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 11:19 A.M. EDT\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0Hello, everybody. \'a0Thank you. \'a0Good morning. \'a0Thank you for all being here. \'a0Before beginning today, I\'92d like to take a moment to again send our thoughts and prayers to my friend, and the friend of most of us in this room, Steve Scalise, and his great family as he continues his very brave fight.\
It\'92s been much more difficult than people even thought at the time. \'a0It\'92s been -- he\'92s in some trouble, but he\'92s a great fighter and he\'92s going to be okay, we hope. \'a0\
I visited Steve and his family at the hospital last night, and I reassured them that the entire country is pulling for them, praying for them, and that we are here for them every single step of the way. \'a0America\'92s hearts -- and we mean this in the truest sense -- sends its love. \'a0We got a lot of hearts in this country, great hearts, and they're all sending their love and support to the Scalise Family.\'a0\
And Steve, in his own way, may have brought some unity to our long-divided country. \'a0We've had a very, very divided country for many years. \'a0And I have a feeling that Steve has made a great sacrifice, but there could be some unity being brought to our country. \'a0Let\'92s hope so.\
While at the hospital, I also visited with Special Agent Crystal Griner -- a terrific young woman -- of the Capitol Police and her family. \'a0Crystal is one of the two Capitol Police officers who saved so many lives through her heroism, along with Special Agent David Bailey. \'a0They ran right into the fire. \'a0They ran right into those guns and the bullets, and they saved a lot of lives. \'a0America salutes both of their courage. \'a0They have great, great courage. \'a0We all salute them.\
We also salute the men and women of the Alexandria Police, Fire and Rescue, and all of the first responders. \'a0The timing and speed and the professionalism was incredible. \'a0They performed with bravery and with skill.\
Finally, our heartfelt prayers go out to Matt Mika, who was badly wounded in the assault. \'a0To Matt\'92s family: \'a0Anything you need, we are here for you. \'a0Hopefully, Matt will be okay.\
In these difficult hours, it\'92s more important than ever to help each other, care for each other, and remind each other that we are all united by our love of our great and beautiful country.\'a0\
We're joined today by Secretary Acosta, Secretary Ross, and Administrator McMahon as we prepare to make a historic announcement to train Americans for the jobs of the future. \'a0We have a lot of companies moving into this country. \'a0You see the unemployment rate is at a very, very low level. \'a0Job enthusiasm and manufacturing, business enthusiasm is at record levels -- never been higher. \'a0A lot of good numbers are coming out, including almost $4 trillion in gain to the stock markets since the election -- $4 trillion. \'a0We just signed a big deal yesterday for hundreds of millions of dollars\'92 worth of equipment and military equipment going to be made in this country, in our country, for other countries.\
We've got it going. \'a0We have to make sure the people are here and they're going to be well trained. \'a0\
So I want to thank my daughter Ivanka and her leadership. \'a0She has worked so hard on this. \'a0She understands how important it is. \'a0We're training people to have great jobs and high-paying jobs. \'a0 \'a0\
And we're here today to celebrate the dignity of work -- it\'92s really a good term -- dignity of work -- and the greatness of the American worker, which I\'92ve been celebrating for a long time. \'a0Probably wouldn\'92t be here if it weren\'92t for the American worker.\
And the American worker sees what\'92s happening in Michigan and in Ohio and in a lot of places that we've had a huge impact on just in a short period of time that I\'92ve been here and this administration has been involved. \'a0We have a lot of companies moving in, a lot of plants are going to be built. \'a0A lot of plants are being expanded, and big ones are going to be announced very soon. \'a0You're going to hear some very big names that I can't tell you about now. \'a0We want to get them signed on the dotted line. \'a0We don't want to talk too quickly. \'a0It\'92s called \'93sign them on the dotted line,\'94 right? \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0\
In just a few moments, I\'92ll be signing an executive order to expand apprenticeships and vocational training to help all Americans find a rewarding career, earn a great living, and support themselves and their families, and love going to work in the morning.\
We will be removing federal restrictions that have prevented many different industries from creating apprenticeship programs. \'a0We have regulations on top of regulations. \'a0And in history, nobody has gotten rid of so many regulations at the Trump administration. \'a0And that's one of the reasons that you see the jobs and the companies all kicking in so strongly. \'a0I think some very good numbers are going to be announced, by the way, in the very near future as to GDP.\
So we're empowering these companies, these unions, industry groups, federal agencies to go out and create new apprenticeships for millions of our citizens. \'a0Apprenticeships place students into great jobs without the crippling debt of traditional four-year college degrees. \'a0Instead, apprentices earn while they learn -- which is an expression we're using: \'a0Earn while you learn.\
We\'92re joined today by apprentices who know firsthand how these programs can bring new hope and new opportunities. \'a0We're also joined by some of the country\'92s great governors, and I appreciate them very, very much for being here. \'a0We just had a meeting in the Cabinet Room.\
Charles Robel is here with us from Wisconsin, where I just left, actually, yesterday. \'a0I was with Governor Walker. \'a0Charles is a three-time combat veteran who bravely served our nation -- highly respected. \'a0After Charles came back from the war, he, like so many other Americans, faced very tough economic times. \'a0\
Charles began taking machine tool operation courses from a technical college. \'a0He immediately excelled. \'a0He was really, really good at it, they say. \'a0That's what they say. \'a0I haven\'92t checked. \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0Where is Charles? \'a0Come here. \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0Charles, they tell me. \'a0I haven\'92t checked it. \'a0I want to check you out, all right? \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0But he immediately excelled. And by the end of his year-long apprenticeship, Charles will be making more than $60,000 a year and going up a lot higher than that. \'a0And he loves what he does. \'a0I think you really love it, right? \'a0Yes, loves it.\
Charles, we thank you for your service to a country -- to our country, both in the military and in exactly what you're doing right now, which is so important. \'a0And we congratulate you on this exciting new career, and you're going to have some great future. \'a0Thank you, Charles, appreciate it. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
Each of the apprentices here today has their own story and their own dreams -- that\'92s what they are -- dreams. \'a0\
Apprenticeships teach striving Americans the skills they need to operate incredible machines. \'a0And some of these machines are so intricate, so powerful, and, really -- the word is -- they are incredible. \'a0This is not the old days; this is new and computerized and complicated, and you really have to know what you're doing. \'a0But they create amazing products. \'a0And to construct skyscrapers that touch the clouds. -- I mean, you look at the equipment today, and just go back 10 years ago and 20 years ago, it\'92s from a different world, from a different planet. \'a0 It\'92s incredible. \'a0\
I just met with the governors from many of the states to discuss how we can work with them to expand apprenticeships and the apprentice programs. \'a0I\'92m also delighted to be here with CEOs of major companies who support our apprenticeship initiatives. \'a0 And we had a tremendous number of the biggest CEOs in the world here yesterday. \'a0We talked about this also and they are fully behind it, including our effort to help millions of talented young American women thrive and flourish in our economy.\'a0\
We are thrilled, as well, to have with us today Congressman Bobby Scott and Congresswoman Virginia Foxx, who care so deeply about this effort. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Thank you. \'a0\
The strength of our nation will be determined by our ability to keep jobs in America, and we\'92re going to keep them in America. \'a0 You\'92re not going to have companies fleeing like in the past. \'a0There\'92s going to be a big price to pay for companies that want to leave, fire their workers, build a plant outside of this country, and think they\'92re going to sell their product right back into the United States. \'a0There's going to be a big price to pay. \'a0\
But we want to keep jobs in America and we want to train people and hire American workers to fill those jobs. \'a0 And that\'92s exactly what we\'92re doing, and we\'92re really doing a job of it. \'a0And I just want to thank all of our secretaries and everybody involved in the process. \'a0\
Not only will our apprentices transform their lives, but they will also transform our lives in the truest sense. \'a0Today\'92s apprentices will construct the roads and bridges that move our citizens, they will bend the metal and steel that shape our cities, and they will pioneer the new technology that drives our commerce. \'a0\
But as we train the next generation of Americans to do their jobs, all of us here today have to do our jobs: \'a0We have to join forces, join hands, and join together to restore the American Dream for all of our people. \'a0\
And one of the parts of the American Dream is we\'92re going to come down very, very hard -- and we already have; you\'92ve seen what\'92s going on the border -- on this massive drug problem that we have in the United States and, frankly, that other countries have also. \'a0And we\'92re coming down very, very hard on it. \'a0 And if we don\'92t, it\'92s called shame on us. \'a0\
So everybody that has worked so hard on this program and everybody in this room, including the reporters, God bless you -- (laughter) -- God bless America. \'a0And let\'92s go out and let\'92s do a really terrific job with the apprentice program. \'a0\'a0\
Thank you very much. \'a0Thank you very much. \'a0Appreciate it. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0\'a0\
(The executive order is signed.)\
END\uc0\u8232 11:33 A.M. EDT\
}