{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 SourceSansPro-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red83\green83\blue83;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The White House\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf3 \strokec3 Office of the Press Secretary\
For Immediate Release\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf3 June 16, 2017\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl900\sa600\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs70 \cf4 \strokec4 Remarks by President Trump on the Policy of the United States Towards Cuba\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf4 Manuel Artime Theater\uc0\u8232 Miami, Florida\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 1:31 P.M. EDT\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0Thank you, everybody. \'a0Thank you very much. \'a0Great honor. \'a0And thank you to my truly great friend, Vice President Mike Pence -- he\'92s terrific. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0And thank you to Miami. \'a0We love Miami. \'a0\
Let me start by saying that I\'92m glad Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and I, along with a very talented team, were able to get Otto Warmbier back with his parents. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0What\'92s happened to him is a truly terrible thing, but at least the ones who love him so much can now take care of him and be with him.\
Also, my dear friend, Steve Scalise, took a bullet for all of us. \'a0And because of him, and the tremendous pain and suffering he\'92s now enduring -- he\'92s having a hard time, far worse than anybody thought -- our country will perhaps become closer, more unified. \'a0So important. \'a0\
So we all owe Steve a big, big thank you. \'a0And let\'92s keep the Warmbier family, and the Scalise family, and all of the victims of the congressional shooting, in our hearts and prayers. \'a0And it was quite a day and our police officers were incredible, weren\'92t they? \'a0They did a great job. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0 \'a0\
And let us all pray for a future of peace, unity and safety for all of our people. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Thank you. \'a0And for Cuba.\
I am so thrilled to be back here with all of my friends in Little Havana. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0I love it. \'a0I love this city. \'a0\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0Thank you. \'a0Thank you.\'a0\
This is an amazing community, the Cuban-American community -- so much love. \'a0I saw that immediately.\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0Thank you, darling. \'a0Oh do I love you, too. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0 \'a0\
What you have built here -- a vibrant culture, a thriving neighborhood, the spirit of adventure -- is a testament to what a free Cuba could be. \'a0And with God\'92s help, a free Cuba is what we will soon achieve. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0\'a0\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0And I don\'92t even mind that it is 110 degrees up here. \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0This room is packed. \'a0You know, it wasn\'92t designed for this. \'a0I would like to thank the fire department. \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0\
We are delighted to be joined by so many friends and leaders of our great community. \'a0I want to express our deep gratitude to a man who has really become a friend of mine -- and I want to tell you, he is one tough competitor -- Senator Marco Rubio. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Great guy. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0He is tough, man. \'a0He is tough and he\'92s good, and he loves you. \'a0He loves you.\
And I listened to another friend of mine, Congressman Mario Diaz-Balart -- (applause) -- and I\'92ll tell you, I loved what he said, and I appreciate it. \'a0Mario, I appreciated what you said so much. \'a0In fact I was looking for Mario. \'a0I wanted to find him -- they said he was onstage. \'a0I almost dragged him off the stage to thank him, but now I\'92m thanking you anyway. \'a0Thank you, Mario. \'a0That was great. \'a0Really appreciate it. \'a0\
And I also want to thank my good friend, and just a man who was of tremendous support in the state of Florida, for being with us -- Governor Rick Scott. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Great job. \'a0He\'92s doing a great job. \'a0I hope he runs for the Senate. \'a0I know I\'92m not supposed to say that. \'a0I hope he runs for the Senate. \'a0Rick, are you running? \'a0(Applause.) \'a0I don\'92t know. \'a0Marco, let\'92s go, come on. \'a0We got to get him to -- I hope he runs for the Senate.\'a0\
We are deeply honored to be joined by amazing Veterans of the Bay of Pigs. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0These are great people, amazing people. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0 \'a0\
I have wonderful memories from our visit during the campaign. \'a0That was some visit. \'a0That was right before the election. \'a0I guess it worked, right? \'a0Boy, Florida, as a whole, and this community supported us by tremendous margins. \'a0We appreciate it. \'a0\
But including one of the big honors, and that was the honor of getting the Bay of Pigs award just before the election, and it\'92s great to be gathered in a place named for a true hero of the Cuban people. \'a0And you know what that means. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0\'a0\
I was also looking forward to welcoming today two people who are not present -- Jos\'e9 Daniel Ferrer and Berta Soler -- (applause) -- were both prevented from leaving Cuba for this event. \'a0So we acknowledge them. \'a0They\'92re great friends -- great help. \'a0And although they could not be with us, we are with them 100 percent. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0We are with them. \'a0Right?\
Finally, I want to recognize everyone in the audience who has their own painful but important story to tell about the true and brutal nature of the Castro regime. \'a0Brutal. \'a0We thank the dissidents, the exiles, and the children of Operation Peter Pan -- you know what that means -- (applause) -- and all who gather in the cafes, churches, and the streets in this incredible area and city to speak the truth and to stand for justice. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0 \'a0\
And we want to thank you all for being a voice for the voiceless. \'a0There are people \'96- it\'92s voiceless, but you are making up the difference, and we all want to thank you. \'a0This group is amazing. \'a0Just an incredible \'96- you are an incredible group of talented, passionate people. \'a0Thank you. \'a0Incredible group of people. \'a0 \'a0\
Many of you witnessed terrible crimes committed in service of a depraved ideology. \'a0You saw the dreams of generations held by captive, and just, literally, you look at what happened and what communism has done. \'a0You knew faces that disappeared, innocents locked in prisons, and believers persecuted for preaching the word of God. \'a0You watched the Women in White bruised, bloodied, and captured on their way from Mass. \'a0You have heard the chilling cries of loved ones, or the cracks of firing squads piercing through the ocean breeze. \'a0Not a good sound.\
Among the courageous Cuban dissidents with us onstage here today are Cary Roque, who was imprisoned by the Castro regime 15 years ago. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0She looks awfully good. \'a0\'a0\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0Thank you. \'a0Wow. \'a0That's pretty good. \'a0She didn't know she was going to do that either, I will tell you. \'a0Thank you very much.\
Antunez, imprisoned for 17 years. \'a0Where is he? \'a0(Applause.) \'a0I love that name. \'a0Antunez -- I love that name --and Angel De Fana, imprisoned for over 20 years. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Thank you. \'a0Thank you. \'a0Very brave people.\
The exiles and dissidents here today have witnessed communism destroy a nation, just as communism has destroyed every single nation where it has ever been tried. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0But we will not be silent in the face of communist oppression any longer. \'a0You have seen the truth, you have spoken the truth, and the truth has now called us -- this group -- called us to action. \'a0Thank you.\
Last year, I promised to be a voice against repression in our region -- remember, tremendous oppression -- and a voice for the freedom of the Cuban people. \'a0You heard that pledge. \'a0You exercised the right you have to vote. \'a0You went out and you voted. \'a0And here I am like I promised -- like I promised. \'a0(Applause.)\
I promised you -- I keep my promises. \'a0Sometimes in politics, they take a little bit longer, but we get there. \'a0We get there. \'a0Don't we get there? \'a0You better believe it, Mike. \'a0We get there. \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0Thank you. \'a0Thank you. \'a0No, we keep our promise.\
And now that I am your President, America will expose the crimes of the Castro regime and stand with the Cuban people in their struggle for freedom. \'a0Because we know it is best for America to have freedom in our hemisphere, whether in Cuba or Venezuela, and to have a future where the people of each country can live out their own dreams. \'a0(Applause.)\
For nearly six decades, the Cuban people have suffered under communist domination. \'a0To this day, Cuba is ruled by the same people who killed tens of thousands of their own citizens, who sought to spread their repressive and failed ideology throughout our hemisphere, and who once tried to host enemy nuclear weapons 90 miles from our shores.\
The Castro regime has shipped arms to North Korea and fueled chaos in Venezuela. \'a0While imprisoning innocents, it has harbored cop killers, hijackers, and terrorists. \'a0It has supported human trafficking, forced labor, and exploitation all around the globe. \'a0This is the simple truth of the Castro regime. (Applause.)\
My administration will not hide from it, excuse it, or glamorize it. \'a0And we will never, ever be blind to it. \'a0We know what's going on and we remember what happened. \'a0(Applause.)\
On my recent trip overseas, I said the United States is adopting a principled realism, rooted in our values, shared interests, and common sense. \'a0I also said countries should take greater responsibility for creating stability in their own regions. \'a0It's hard to think of a policy that makes less sense than the prior administration\'92s terrible and misguided deal with the Castro regime. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Well, you have to say, the Iran deal was pretty bad also. \'a0Let's not forget that beauty.\
They made a deal with a government that spreads violence and instability in the region and nothing they got -- think of it -- nothing they got -- they fought for everything and we just didn\'92t fight hard enough. \'a0But now those days are over. \'a0Now we hold the cards. \'a0We now hold the cards. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
The previous administration\'92s easing of restrictions on travel and trade does not help the Cuban people -- they only enrich the Cuban regime. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0The profits from investment and tourism flow directly to the military. \'a0The regime takes the money and owns the industry. \'a0The outcome of the last administration\'92s executive action has been only more repression and a move to crush the peaceful, democratic movement.\
Therefore, effective immediately, I am canceling the last administration\'92s completely one-sided deal with Cuba. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0I am announcing today a new policy, just as I promised during the campaign, and I will be signing that contract right at that table in just a moment. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
Our policy will seek a much better deal for the Cuban people and for the United States of America. \'a0We do not want U.S. dollars to prop up a military monopoly that exploits and abuses the citizens of Cuba.\
Our new policy begins with strictly enforcing U.S. law. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0We will not lift sanctions on the Cuban regime until all political prisoners are freed, freedoms of assembly and expression are respected, all political parties are legalized, and free and internationally supervised elections are scheduled. \'a0Elections. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
We will very strongly restrict American dollars flowing to the military, security and intelligence services that are the core of Castro regime. \'a0They will be restricted. \'a0We will enforce the ban on tourism. \'a0We will enforce the embargo. \'a0We will take concrete steps to ensure that investments flow directly to the people, so they can open private businesses and begin to build their country\'92s great, great future -- a country of great potential. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
My action today bypasses the military and the government, to help the Cuban people themselves form businesses and pursue much better lives. \'a0We will keep in place the safeguards to prevent Cubans from risking their lives to unlawful travel to the United States. \'a0They are in such danger the way they have to come to this country, and we are going to be safeguarding those people. \'a0We have to. \'a0We have no choice. \'a0We have to. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
And we will work for the day when a new generation of leaders brings this long reign of suffering to an end. \'a0And I do believe that end is in the very near future. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
We challenge Cuba to come to the table with a new agreement that is in the best interests of both their people and our people and also of Cuban Americans.\
To the Cuban government, I say: \'a0Put an end to the abuse of dissidents. \'a0Release the political prisoners. \'a0Stop jailing innocent people. \'a0Open yourselves to political and economic freedoms. \'a0Return the fugitives from American justice -- including the return of the cop-killer Joanne Chesimard. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
And finally, hand over the Cuban military criminals who shot down and killed four brave members of Brothers to the Rescue who were in unarmed, small, slow civilian planes. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0\
Those victims included Mario de la Pena, Jr., and Carlos Costa. \'a0We are honored to be joined by Mario\'92s parents, Miriam and Mario, and Carlos\'92s sister, Mirta. \'a0Where are you? \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Those are great, great parents who love their children so much. \'a0What they've done is just an incredible, incredible thing -- what they represent -- they did not die in vain -- what they represent to everybody, and especially to the Cuban people. \'a0So your children did not die in vain, believe me. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
So to the Castro regime, I repeat: \'a0The harboring of criminals and fugitives will end. \'a0You have no choice. \'a0It will end. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
Any changes to the relationship between the United States and Cuba will depend on real progress toward these and the other goals, many of which I\'92ve described. \'a0When Cuba is ready to take concrete steps to these ends, we will be ready, willing, and able to come to the table to negotiate that much better deal for Cubans, for Americans. \'a0Much better deal and a deal that's fair. \'a0A deal that's fair and a deal that makes sense. \'a0\
Our embassy remains open in the hope that our countries can forge a much stronger and better path. \'a0America believes that free, independent, and sovereign nations are the best vehicle for human happiness, for health, for education, for safety, for everything. \'a0We all accept that all nations have the right to chart their own paths -- and I\'92m certainly a very big believer in that -- so we will respect Cuban sovereignty. \'a0But we will never turn our backs on the Cuban people. \'a0That will not happen. \'a0(Applause.)\'a0\
Over the years, a special sympathy has grown between this land of the free, and the beautiful people of that island, so close to our shores and so deeply woven into the history of our region. \'a0America has rejected the Cuban people\'92s oppressors. \'a0They are rejected. \'a0Officially today, they are rejected. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0And to those people, America has become a source of strength, and our flag a symbol of hope.\'a0\
I know that is exactly what America is to you and what it represents to you. \'a0It represents the same to me. \'a0It represents the same to all of us. \'a0And that is what it was to a little boy, Luis Haza. \'a0You ever hear of Luis? \'a0He became very famous, great talent -- just eight years old when Fidel Castro seized power. At the time, Luis\'92s father was the police chief in Santiago de Cuba. \'a0You know Santiago? \'a0Yeah? \'a0Oh, they know Santiago. \'a0Just days after Fidel took control, his father was one of 71 Cubans executed by firing squad near San Juan Hill at the hands of the Castro regime.\'a0\
Luis buried his grief in his great love of music. \'a0He began playing the violin so brilliantly and so beautifully. \'a0Soon the regime saw his incredible gift and wanted to use him for propaganda purposes. \'a0When he was 12, they organized a national television special and demanded he play a solo for Raul Castro \'a0-- who by the way is leaving now. \'a0I wonder why.\
They sent an official to fetch Luis from his home. \'a0But Luis refused to go. \'a0And a few days later, Castro\'92s soldiers barged into his orchestra practice area, guns blazing. \'a0They told him to play for them. \'a0Terrified, Luis began to play. \'a0And the entire room was stunned by what they heard. \'a0Ringing out from the trembling boy\'92s violin was a tune they all recognized. \'a0This young Cuban boy was playing \'93The Star Spangled Banner.\'94 \'a0(Applause.) \'a0Luis played the American National Anthem all the way through, and when he finished, the room was dead silent.\'a0\
When we say that America stands as a symbol to the world -- a symbol of freedom, and a symbol of hope -- that is what Luis meant, and that is what Luis displayed that day. \'a0It was a big day. \'a0It was a great day. \'a0And that is what we will all remain. That was a very important moment, just like this is now, for Cuba. \'a0A very important moment. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0America will always stand for liberty, and America will always pray and cheer for the freedom of the Cuban people.\
Now, that little boy, whose story I just told you, the one who played that violin so beautifully so many years ago, is here with us today in our very, very packed and extremely warm auditorium. \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0Of course, he is no longer a little boy, but a world-renowned violinist and conductor -- one of the greats. \'a0And today he will once again play his violin and fill the hearts of all who love and cherish Cuba, the United States, and freedom. \'a0(Applause.)\
I would like to now invite Luis to the stage. \'a0\
Luis. \'a0(Applause.)\
(Luis Haza plays The Star-Spangled Banner on the violin.)\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0Thank you, Luis. \'a0I just said, so where were you more nervous? \'a0Today or then? \'a0He said, honestly, I think today. \'a0That's pretty -- (laughter.) \'a0Thank you, Luis, that was beautiful.\
So I want to thank Miami. \'a0I want to thank Little Havana. \'a0Havana, we love. \'a0Do we love it? \'a0Would you move anywhere else? \'a0You wouldn't move to Palm Beach, would you? \'a0No. \'a0No way. \'a0Little Havana.\
And I want to thank all of our great friends here today. \'a0You've been amazing, loyal, beautiful people. \'a0And thank you. \'a0Don't remind me. \'a0Actually, I was telling Mike, so it was two days -- on my birthday -- until a big day, which turned out to be tomorrow -- the 16th. \'a0That was the day I came down with Melania on the escalator at Trump Tower. \'a0That's tomorrow. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0So it's exactly tomorrow -- two years since we announced. \'a0And it worked out okay. \'a0Worked out okay. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0It's a great honor. \'a0Believe me, it's a great honor. \'a0Right?\
THE PRESIDENT: \'a0Thank you. \'a0Thank you very much.\
I just want to end by saying may God bless everyone searching for freedom. \'a0May God bless Cuba. \'a0May God bless the United States of America. \'a0And God bless you all. \'a0Thank you. \'a0Now I'm going to sign. \'a0Thank you.\uc0\u8232 (The President participates in a signing.)\
So this says, "strengthening the policy of the United States toward Cuba." \'a0And I can add, "strengthening a lot." \'a0(Laughter.) \'a0So this is very important, and you watch what's going to happen. \'a0Going to be a great day for Cuba. \'a0\
Thank you. \'a0Thank you very much. \'a0(Applause.) \'a0\
END \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0 \'a0\'a0\uc0\u8232 2:09 P.M. EDT\
}