{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 SourceSansPro-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red83\green83\blue83;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c40000\c40000\c40000;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The White House\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf3 \strokec3 Office of the Press Secretary\
For Immediate Release\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\qr\partightenfactor0
\cf3 June 20, 2017\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl900\sa600\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs70 \cf4 \strokec4 Remarks by President Trump and President Poroshenko of Ukraine\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs32 \cf4 Oval Office\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480\sa320\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \uc0\u8232 11:09 A.M. EDT\
PRESIDENT TRUMP: \'a0Thank you very much. \'a0It's a great honor to be with President Poroshenko of the Ukraine -- a place that we've all been very much involved in. \'a0And you've been seeing it and everybody has been reading about it. \'a0\
And we've had some very, very good discussions. \'a0It's going to continue throughout the day. \'a0And I think a lot of progress has been made. \'a0And it's a great honor to have you, Mr. President. \'a0Thank you. \'a0Thank you very much.\
Would you like to say something?\
We're really fighting to bring freedom and democracy with your very strong support in security and defense -- support of our defense, support of my 45 million nation, of the country who is the biggest in the European continent. \'a0And I'm absolutely confident that Ukraine is a story of success. \'a0I'm proud to have you, Mr. President, and United States as a co-sponsor to this story of success. \'a0\
And we very much admire of your leadership, of your very effective steps, because today includes two historic days -- five months of your presidency and -- when we launched the first peace plan -- peace plan of Ukraine. \'a0And I'm absolutely confident that our effective coordination will bring the peace to our nation, to our land, and can support our territorial integrity and sovereignty.\
PRESIDENT TRUMP: \'a0Well, thank you. \'a0It's a great honor. \'a0Thank you very much. \'a0Thank you.\
Q \'a0 \'a0How will you respond to the death of Otto Warmbier?\
PRESIDENT TRUMP: \'a0I think Otto -- it's a disgrace what happened to Otto. \'a0It's a total disgrace what happened to Otto. \'a0That should never, ever be allowed to happen. \'a0And frankly, if he were brought home sooner, I think the result would have been a lot different. \'a0He should have been brought home that same day. \'a0The result would have been a lot different. \'a0\
But what happened to Otto is a disgrace. \'a0And I spoke with his family. \'a0His family is incredible, what they've gone through. \'a0But he should have been brought home a long time ago. \'a0\
Thank you all very much. \'a0I appreciate it.\
END\'a0\uc0\u8232 11:11 A.M. EDT\
}